The Ethics of Adam Christopher

- By Manetho

[dated to around the first ten years after foundation of TCEA, before its full impacts were realized by most of the critical community]
[because this was published online anonymously, it was initially classified under the genre of 'terrorist fiction', although some revisionists have claimed similarity to the muckraker traditions of Sinclair]

There are those who will claim he was simply a madman. But I think this is unfair. From the beginning, he explicitly acknowledged his profit motive. What else was allowed 
in American society of that time other than, perhaps, being law-abiding? The study of ethics must be the consideration of alternatives: examine his options. 

VR was inevitable. Now, the propaganda coming out of The Corporation right now is that they're using strictly revolutionary technology, never seen before. But the basics had
sat on the shelf unused for decades at least. There just hadn't been the 'killer app' yet. And whatever else can be said for, or about, him, Christopher was able to find it.

And we must acknowledge that someone else was going to do it someday. Even in the late 20th century, virtual worlds had captured influential parts of the imagination. Three dimensional, realistic models
were being made, not simply in classified or academic projects, but as hobbyist proofs of concept and mainstream commercial toys. So although it's possible that his work
truly advanced technology by decades as the current PR is claiming, it seems more likely that those now-ghost companies which had recently tried to compete with TCEA would
have been able to attract financing and discover the solution sooner or later, even if their very creation would have been delayed without the tech demo which so famously
announced the first year of 'Emancipation', whatever that means, or will come to mean.

[---it appears that the author was interrupted by the abrupt realization of a final within 9 pre-Emancipation hours of his present time...]