Related: [[The Ethics of Adam Christopher]]

Adam Christopher is driven by his vision: the utopia of the future can exist and he will be God.

His corporation, The Corporation for the Emancipation of All, offered every person freedom to experience anything. 
Later moralists argued violent VR impressed on the consumer-class violent tendancies. Thus began thought-crime investigation.

To gain access to the VR machines one had to be a member of the corporation. This is how The Corporation became the unified world economy.

The Corporation is symbolic because it is God's body. Adam Christopher is significant because of stupid obvious it is.

The global economy consists of two parts: the Corporation, and the free market. The free-market is of course highly illegal. 
Society is highly divided. There exist to predominant castes: the creators and the consumers. Consumers have the power to experience anything, but don't know what to create. 
Creators, then, supply the majority consumer society with entertainment. God's creative force was realized upon creating VR, so he requires other minds to produce original
realities for the consumers to experience. God identifies those with talent at a young age. Creators are granted effective immortality and spend all 24 hours in a day in VR.
They create virtual worlds so detailed that they eventually become self-referential and self-generating. The creator is then immortalized as the generating force of the 
virtual universe. The creators are, in turn, dependent on the consumers participating in what is called "The Game" by God.

Currency is paid in seconds of VR time every day. The number of seconds in a day is not fixed, rather it is determined by God. The number of seconds in
a day have been continually rising, creating an inflationary ladder economy with the Corporation and God at the top. In God's view The Game is the simplest way to
control the entire populace.

The Free-Market is where one can get immoral VRs, exchange illegal currency, and generally try to shun the corporation. However, the underworld is just as much of a grind
as the corporation. In the underground there are still creators and consumers. The consumers are dangerously reliant on their twisted creators, leading to factions and 
strange cults.