h1. Personal Ethical Religion

I want a code of ethics. Unfortunately, none of the mainstream codes fit me. Some of the traditions I've investigated are (in order of ascending preference) Mormonism, Catholicism, Lutheranism, Hinduism, Buddhism, and Daoism. Each has many positive aspects I incorporated into my life, but none of them could I follow fully. If I declared myself to 'belong' to any of them, I would open myself up to criticism of their worst aspects.

I realized to keep all the tenets of a religion I must agree with those tenets. I haven't found a religion I completely agree with. Perhaps there is one. If you think I might like a religion, please suggest it to me (let me know what books and resources I should begin my investigations with). In the mean time, I will make a Personal Religion that I will have no trouble following. I believe that Personal Religion allows me to be a good person without dogmatism.

My Personal Ethical Religion has a couple tenets and many conducts. 

h2. My tenets

0. I am sacred and free.
1. In relation to others I must conduct myself.

Tenants aren't very interesting to me. Conducts are more important, so here they are.

h2. My conducts

h3. In general

0. Let others be
1. Benefit mutually

Because of my Daoist influence I've broken all of my rules into two portions: a passive behavior and an active behavior. This is an acknowledgement that certain active behaviors are extremely difficult, and I shouldn't be morally condemned for failing to keep them, although I should strive to. An example of this would be my phrasing of the Hippocratic Oath.

h3. As a healer

0. Do no harm
1. Reduce harm

Harm reduction is a difficult and skillful proposition. Many people cause harm by trying to reduce it. That's why I am respectful and wary in trying to apply the active conduct. I think I can easily do no harm, however.

The active behaviors all require great skill and judgement to exercise. The passive behaviors are easy to start doing right away to maintain a baseline level of ethical living.

h3. As a socio-sexual being

0. Accept and tolerate all
1. Love truly

It's hard to describe what true love is, but we know it when it happens. In the absence of love we should be open to everyone, because we never know who will love us.

h3. In survival

0. Care for yourself
1. Care for others

It's much easier to help others when you are self-sufficient.

h3. In trade

0. Negotiate with honesty and fairness
1. Craft mutually beneficial agreements.

Acting in this way improves your reputation as an honorable trader. Many will wish to trade with you, and you will be hard to cheat, because you are not fooled by greed.

h3. In life

0. Accept the situation
1. Exercise free-will

Good decisions cannot be made on faulty information. Free-will is a skill that must be exercised like any other.

h3. In teaching

0. Understand the concept
1. Explain from understanding

Bad teachers do not grasp the concept they seek to capture. Good teachers resonate with the concept.

h3. In thought

0. Absorb input
1. Craft meaning

Thoughts are meaningless without an underlying reality to base them on. Meaningful thoughts must be crafted carefully.
